# CHEATSHEET FOR WHAT I LEARNED

These are instructions for how to do this next time.

[Here's](https://flukeandfeather.github.io/BIOE215fall23/lessons/01_comp_proj_org.html#ref-bryan2017) Max's website with more detail on all steps. 

Step 1)
Make sure github, R, and RStudio are all up to date. To check that git is installed on your computer and the right version run `git --version` in RStudio's Terminal pane (not the Console pane). 

Step 2) Make an RStudio Project and git repository (this is the bit that's local to my machine)
In RStudio, it's file -> New Project, then New Directory -> New Project
Name your project according to normal R naming conventions.
You should save it to a subfolder you make in Documents called GitHub (it's called github on my laptop) and make sure that "create a github repository" is checked. Then click Create Project. Make sure you see a git pane and the name of your project in the top bar!

Step 3) Make your github repository (this is the bit that's remote)
First make sure that the package "usethis" is installed
In the TERMINAL pane, run git config --list and make sure your git username and email are correct.
Now you need to set up or use a personal access token, which I think keeps your crap safe. I think you need to do this every time you set up a new repository? not sure but assume so. 
In console, call usethis::create_github_token() and give your token a name in the browser. 
Then run gitcreds::gitcreds_set() and enter the password from the new access token page
then run usethis::use_git() and enter 1 (this is you committing the uncommited files)
then run usethis::git_default_branch_rename() (you shouldn't get an error, if you do it might be because you forgot the last step)
then run usethis::use_github() SICK! now you should be redirected to a new github repository

STEP 4) set up folder structure

In RStudio under the "Files" pane there's a new folder button. use that to make the following folders: 
The data folder contains all input data (and metadata) used in the analysis.
The paper folder contains the manuscript.
The figs directory contains figures generated by the analysis.
The output folder contains any type of intermediate or output files (e.g. simulation outputs, models, processed datasets, etc.). You might separate this and also have a cleaned-data folder.
The R folder contains R scripts with function definitions.
The reports folder contains Quarto documents5 that describe the analysis or report on results.
The docs folder contains the rendered versions of the reports.
The scratch folder contains early prototypes and other code I don’t fully understand yet.
The scripts that actually do things are stored in the root directory, but if your project has many scripts, you might want to organize them in a directory of their own.

There's a way to get github to ignore big files that you shouldn't store on github (too large or not public) - you should ask max what to do with this

Now you're good! when you make changes that you want to save you go to the git pane, hit commit, then you push it to github, and then you can keep an eye on it in your github repo if you want (it'll take a couple minutes to update)





IN PROGRESS






